# Knee_Rehabilitation_Project

| Project Name | Description | Project Sponser | Author | Date |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Kneemetrics: Matlab to C | Conversion of the Kneemetrics Matlab based algorithm into C, and improvement of the algorithms computational / time efficiency | WSN Group, Tyndall National Institute | Luke Jervis | August 30, 2016 |


## About 
Knee injuries have a significant economic-social impact to the health care system (in terms of hospital cost, possible infections, medication, rehabilitation) and to the individual (as per lost working days, pain, medical expenses, and possible dissatisfaction), and it is expected to be even higher in the next years. As an example, the number of knee-related surgeries has increased by 8.2% between 1990 and 2002 in the US, and is predicted to increase by 673% to 3.5 million by 2030, impacting on 7.2% Medicare expenditure. The annual cost to society in the US was $2.78 billion for surgery and $4.4 billion for rehab (2012). 

Therefore, there is a pressing need for this work in order to provide for rehabilitation, cheaply and efficiently. Currently, a wide range of technologies could be deployed as viable solutions (e.g. optoelectronics systems – VICON, instrumented treadmills and force platforms). While these technologies can achieve very high performance, they also present several drawbacks. They are limited to lab-environments, are expensive and need a certain amount of training. Also, despite the availability in literature of several algorithms for gait analysis starting from inertial sensors, the technology is still not widely used by clinicians in real life cases, due to the fact that the systems hamper the normal operations and are validated by only considering a small amount of patients.

To avoid such issues, Tyndall National institute developed an essential, simple, low-cost, low-power, wireless, real-time, minimally-invasive system able to provide highly accurate, reliable data, in order to contain the accuracy of a lab into a simple wearable system. The software, in our initial proof-of-concept, has been currently implemented by means of a scientific tool (MATLAB) requiring license, which makes the system not affordable for most of clinicians. The aim of the internship is to reproduce the source code, in C language, with particular focus on constrained resources, such as memory and computational complexity. The new code will then be easily integrated into microcontrollers or real-time executable applications. The front-end implementation will also be considered as part of the project. 
